s So how did my work day change over the life of my career? Um, I will
say that as a divisional officer at sea at sea duty, um, my day entailed
a lot of running around and inspecting, making sure equipment
worked a lot of spot checks. Um, coming back as a department head. The
one thing that was that was different was, you know, now people are
looking at you. So now all of a sudden is not 25. 30. There's, ah,
150 people that are looking to you for the answer. A za chief engineer.
You know, there's only two times when I had hard casualties, where
where the ship waas suffering from a major catastrophic casualty.
And we were on the verge off what is known as being going cold and
dark. And so at that point, when the cash Lee was called away and
I had to get my transport myself, you know, very fast, very quickly.
Down to the central control station CCs. Everyone's looking around,
and at that point, it knows why everyone's looking at you. You're the
man now that is different from being a divisional officer. That was
the one time when all eyes go to you and it's your train, your war
sense, your knowledge or experience that you have to rely on is no
one else but that voice. So that's the thing about sea duty. There's
always as things are gonna change. Time's gonna change between division
officer, the former head. But as a department head, you need to
use your experience from your division. Also yours. What is it like?
How is it gonna play out, Um, and then on on shore duty? Um, I personally
as unsure of it in my first short tour, you know, I was a student,
so that wasn't too taxing at the Naval Postgraduate School.
I just had to push myself, too. Get my A's, you know, and push on through
and learn as much as I could. Um, for instance, because the degree
I had was National Security Affairs stepped on television. Well,
that qualified me later on for my second and final active duty short
tour. And that was at the hospital to your affairs at Central Intelligence
Agency. And so I had to rely on my knowledge game, uh, from
years before at a post graduate school and on my operational experience,
learn how to, uh, act, you know how to translate what the fleet
is doing and how to use a fleet at the also military affairs at the
Pentagon with C I A. So you're doing doing Maur cerebral work, If
you will, when you get to the higher ranks and you're trying to figure
out, you know, when you're at it at a combatant command, you know
what exactly we want to do with the missile force, what exactly we're
going to do with the submarine force? Why are we going to deploy
a ballistic submarine to the specifics right now? So what are the Indians
and the Pakistanis? Perhaps we don't need a submarine in the
Pacific. Perhaps we needed in the Indian Ocean. That's the kind of thing
that you do as a senior officer is. Make these recommendations.
What is the art of the possible? You want to advise the civilians that
air advising the National Command Authority in C. A. And that's
what you're counting on? That's what you are being taught to do to be
in the right position at the right time, with the right knowledge
to advise national command authority on what